	       FUNCTIONAL OBJECTS LIBRARY PUBLIC LICENSE
                              Version 1.0
________________________________________________________________________

Preamble.

This license permits the use and distribution of the source code for
certain Functional Objects libraries under terms intended to satisfy the Open
Source Definition (http://www.opensource.org/osd.html).

This license sets the terms and conditions for distribution of these
libraries either:
- as source code, or
- as compiled libraries for use with programs such as development tools.

These terms and conditions require, among other things, that any such
distribution involve the preservation of the copyright notice and
license terms, identification of all modifications, and a declaration of
no warranty.  They also provide for use of Functional Objects' trade names and
trade marks in any distribution and govern their use in any advertising,
publicity, or other such public use.

This license allows the distribution of these libraries in binary form
without requiring the distribution of source code, provided such
libraries are distributed as part of a larger application, other than
development tools, as further set forth below.  In this respect it is
unlike most open source agreements, which require that the source be
made available with all binary distributions.

You are not required to accept this license, since you have not signed
it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute
any code, library, or any derivative works thereof. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this license. Therefore, by
using, modifying or distributing any code, library (or any work based on
the code), you indicate your acceptance of the License set forth below,
and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
such Code, library, or works based on them.


1. Definitions. 

1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to the
creation of Modifications.

1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Code,
prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications made by
that particular Contributor.

1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the
combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case
including portions thereof.

1.4. "Deploy" means to use, sublicense or distribute Covered Code other
than for Your internal research and development (R&D), and includes
without limitation, any and all internal use or distribution of Covered
Code within Your business or organization except for R&D use, as well as
direct or indirect sublicensing or distribution of Covered Code by You
to any third party in any form or manner.

1.5. "Developer" means Functional Objects, Inc., or its affiliates or
licensors, as applicable.

1.6. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally
accepted in the software development community for the electronic
transfer of data.

1.7. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.

1.8. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License. There are
two forms of Larger Work relevant to this license:

     A. A work that Uses Covered Code means software that contains no
     derivative of any portion of the Covered Code, but is designed to
     work with the Covered Code by being compiled or linked with it, and
     is not and has no ability to link to other application programs.

     B. A work that Includes Covered Code means any other work,
     including, but not limited to, one that is intended to make Covered
     Code available as a Library to users of the Larger Work, whether by
     aggregation, re-export of functionality, or any other method.

1.9. "Library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be linked with application programs (which use some of
those functions and data) to form executables.

1.10. "License" means this document.

1.11. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum
extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or
subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein

1.12. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the
substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous
Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a
Modification is:

      A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
      containing Original Code or previous Modifications.

      B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or
      previous Modifications.

      C. Any new file that extends the operation of the Covered Code, as
      part of the same Library.

1.13. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code
identified under this License, excluding Modifications.

1.14. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter
acquired, including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus
claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.

1.15. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for
making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, scripts used to control
compilation and installation of an Executable, or a list of source code
differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another
well-known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The
Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the
appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available
for no charge.

1.16. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a
future version of this License issued under Section 5.1. For legal
entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or
is under common control with You. For purposes of this definition,
"control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.


2. Source Code License. 

2.1. License Grant. 
The Developer and each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual
property claims:

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Developer to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Original Code (or portions thereof) with
or without Modifications, alone and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of
Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for
sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Code (or portions
thereof).

(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on
the date Developer first distributes Original Code under the terms of
this License.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted:
1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2) separate from the
Original Code; or 3) for infringements caused by: i) the modification of
the Original Code or ii) the combination of the Original Code with other
software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant. 
Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor
hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license
 
(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such Contributor
(or portions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with other
Modifications, as Covered Code and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of
Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in
combination with its Contributor Version (or portions of such
combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or
otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or
portions thereof); and 2) the combination of Modifications made by that
Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions of such
combination).

(c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on
the date Contributor first Deploys the Covered Code.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted:
1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor
Version; 2) separate from the Contributor Version; 3) for infringements
caused by: i) third party modifications of Contributor Version or ii)
the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with other
software (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other devices;
or 4) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Code in the absence of
Modifications made by that Contributor.


3. Distribution Obligations. 

3.1. Application of License. 
The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are
governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation
Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be distributed
only under the terms of this License or a future version of this License
released under Section 5.1, and You must include a copy of this License
with every copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may not offer or
impose any terms on any Source Code version that alters or restricts the
applicable version of this License or the recipients' rights
hereunder. However, You may include an additional document offering the
additional rights described in Section 3.5.

3.2. Availability of Source Code. 
Any distribution of Covered Code as a Library, or as part of a Larger
Work that Includes the Covered Code, must include the full Source Code
for that Covered Code under the terms of this License either on the same
media as an Executable version or via an accepted Electronic
Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an Executable version
available; and if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism,
must remain available for at least twelve (12) months after the date it
initially became available, or at least six (6) months after a
subsequent version of that particular Modification has been made
available to such recipients. You are responsible for ensuring that the
Source Code version remains available even if the Electronic
Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.

3.3. Description of Modifications. 
You must cause all Covered Code to which you contribute to contain a
file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and
the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that the
Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Code
provided by the Developer and including the name of the Developer in (a)
the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an Executable version or
related documentation in which You describe the origin or ownership of
the Covered Code.

3.4. Intellectual Property Matters 

(a) Third Party Claims. 
If Contributor has knowledge that a party claims an intellectual
property right in particular functionality or code (or its utilization
under this License), Contributor must include a text file with the
source code distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and
the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will
know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after the
Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2, Contributor
shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies You make available
thereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifying appropriate
mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those who
received the Covered Code that new knowledge has been obtained.

(b) Contributor APIs. 
If Contributor's Modification is an application programming interface
and Contributor owns or controls patents which are reasonably necessary
to implement that API, Contributor must also include this information in
the LEGAL file.

(c) Representations. 
Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to Section
3.4(a), Contributor believes that Contributor's Modifications are
Contributor's original creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

3.5. Required Notices. 
You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in a location (such as a
relevant directory file, or a library specification file, or in every
file of the source code) where a user would be likely to look for such a
notice. You must duplicate this License in any documentation for the
Source Code, where You describe recipients' rights relating to Covered
Code.  If You created one or more Modification(s), You may add your name
as a Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. You may choose
to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or
liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered
Code. However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf
of the Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear
than any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is
offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Developer
and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Developer or
such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity, liability
or other additional terms You offer.

3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions. 
You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only as part of a
Larger Work that Uses the Covered Code without restriction.  Otherwise
You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the
requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code, and
only if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of the
Covered Code is available under the terms of this License, including a
description of how and where You have fulfilled the obligations of
Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included in any notice in
an Executable version, related documentation or collateral in which You
describe recipients' rights relating to the Covered Code. You may
distribute the Executable version of Covered Code under a license of
Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License,
provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this License and
that the license for the Executable version does not attempt to limit or
alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code version from the rights
set forth in this License. If You distribute the Executable version
under a different license You must make it absolutely clear that any
terms which differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by
the Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the
Developer and every Contributor for any damages or liability incurred by
the Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You
offer.

3.7. Larger Works. 
You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code
not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work
as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the requirements
of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.


4. Application of this License. 

This License applies to code to which the Developer has attached the
notice in Exhibit A, and to related Covered Code.

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the code
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise
to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the code is void,
and will automatically terminate your rights under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you
under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as
such parties remain in full compliance.


5. Versions of the License. 

5.1. New Versions. 
Functional Objects, Inc. ("Functional Objects") may publish revised
and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version will
be given a distinguishing version number.

5.2. Effect of New Versions. 
Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the
License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that
version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms of
any subsequent version of the License published by Functional
Objects. No one other than Functional Objects has the right to modify
the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this License.

5.3. Derivative Works. 
If you create or use a modified version of this License (which you may
only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code
governed by this License), you must (a) rename Your license so that the
phrase Functional Objects or any confusingly similar phrase do not
appear anywhere in your license and (b) otherwise make it clear that
your version of the license contains terms which differ from the
Functional Objects Library Public License.


6. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. 

COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE
RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH
YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT
THE DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES
AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS
AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.


7. TERMINATION. 

7.1 This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure
such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall survive
any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their nature, must
remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.

7.2. If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement claim
(excluding declatory judgment actions) against Developer or a
Contributor (the Developer or Contributor against whom You file such
action is referred to as "Participant") alleging that:

(a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly
infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such
Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall,
upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively, unless if
within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i) agree in writing
to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable royalty for Your past
and future use of Modifications made by such Participant, or (ii)
withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to the Contributor Version
against such Participant. If within 60 days of notice, a reasonable
royalty and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon in writing
by the parties or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the rights
granted by Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2
automatically terminate at the expiration of the 60 day notice period
specified above.

(b) any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's
Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then
any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)
and/or 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,
sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that Participant.

7.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant
alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or
indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as by
license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent infringement
litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses granted by such
Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into account in
determining the amount or value of any payment or license.

7.4. In the event of termination under Sections 7.1 or 7.2 above, all
end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which
have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to
termination shall survive termination.


8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. 

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL THE DEVELOPER, ANY
OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE, OR ANY SUPPLIER
OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK
STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF
LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY
RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION
OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THAT EXCLUSION
AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.


9. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS. 

All Covered Code is commercial computer software program developed at
private expense and is subject to the following Restricted Rights
Legend: "Use, duplication, or disclosure by the United States Government
is subject to restrictions as set forth in (i) FAR 52.227-14 Alt III or
(ii) FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.  Use by agencies of the Department of
Defense (DOD) is subject to Functional Objects' customary commercial license
terms, contained in this License, in accordance with DFAR 227.7202-1
(a).  For purposes of the FAR, the Software shall be deemed to
'unpublished' and licensed with disclosure prohibitions, rights reserved
under the copyright laws of the United States.  Functional Objects, Inc.,
86 Chandler Street, Somerville, Massachusetts 02144."


10. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter
hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable,
such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable. This License shall be governed by the laws of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, excluding its conflicts of law
provisions.  The application of the United Nations Convention on
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.


11. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS. 

Except in cases where another Contributor has failed to comply with
Section 3.4, You are responsible for damages arising, directly or
indirectly, out of Your utilization of rights under this License, based
on the number of copies of Covered Code you made available, the revenues
you received from utilizing such rights, and other relevant factors. You
agree to work with affected parties to distribute responsibility on an
equitable basis.


12. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE. 

Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as
"Multiple-Licensed". "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Developer
permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under Your choice of
the HLPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified by the Developer
as described in Exhibit A.


EXHIBIT A. -- Functional Objects Library Public License.

"The contents of this library are subject to the Functional Objects Library
Public License Version 1.0 (the "License"); you may not use this library
except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License
at http://www.functionalobjects.com/licenses/library-public-license-1.0.txt

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under
the License.

Original Code is Copyright (C) 1999 Functional Objects, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Alternatively, the contents of this library may be used under the terms
of the [_____] license (the "[___] License"), in which case the
provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those above. If
you wish to allow use of your version of this library only under the
terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use your version
of this library under the License, indicate your decision by deleting the
provisions above and replace them with the notice and other provisions
required by the [___] License. If you do not delete the provisions
above, a recipient may use your version of this library under either the
License or the [___] License."
